Recently, Bisan Owda and AJ+ won the Emmy for Outstanding Hard News Feature: Short Form for their ongoing commitment to documenting the ongoing war in Gaza. However, Bisan herself was poignantly absent from the stage. Representatives from AJ+ accepted the award on behalf of all the journalists who have been murdered by Israeli soldiers and all the brave journalists, like Owda, who remain in an open-air prison of Israel's making.

It has been over a year since the assault on Gaza began. What started as a terrorist attack between Hamas and Israel has devolved into an all-out assault on Gaza. Israel has killed over 40,000 men, women, and children so far, which we know is an inaccurate number considering the daily massacres make it impossible to maintain a body count accurately. Since then, students around the world, and at our very own Virginia Tech, have come together in protest of the ongoing genocide occurring in Gaza, the West Bank, and southern Lebanon right now. Unfortunately, it appears that the students' requests for Virginia Tech's administration to divest from Israel have been brushed aside. The requests urged by protesters are as follows:

Divest from Israel and provide transparency about the endowment, issue an official statement condemning Israel's actions and define anti-Palestinian racism, and knowledge of suppression of Palestinian students and allies.

From April 28th–29th, 82 students, teachers, and other activists were arrested for protesting the genocide in Palestine. What should have been a peaceful protest devolved into chaos as the arrests ensued. The US has a long-standing history of violence towards protesters in the presence of police, but the real outrage comes from President Tim Sands' response to protestors. This letter calls for President Sands' immediate resignation from Virginia Tech. As he has previously stated, he “strongly supports free speech,” so he should take no issue with this letter and its supporters outlining how he has tainted Virginia Tech and all higher education institutions.

To be clear, this is what President Timothy Sands had to say about the arrests during Virginia Tech's pro-Palestine and anti-genocide protests:

While I am grateful the incident was resolved peacefully by Virginia Tech Police, I was saddened by the way our officers were treated. I am also deeply disappointed to see community members choose uncivil and unlawful behavior over purposeful engagement in difficult conversations and robust debate that should be part of the Virginia Tech experience.

He then stated that he had been in contact with numerous pro-Palestinian groups on campus but failed to mention any change students may see shortly to support their efforts against genocide. So far, President Sands has done almost nothing to placate the concerns of the students in his alleged care. Simply existing in the presence of those protesters is good enough, and all of this while we continue to watch massacres committed by the Israeli government. President Tim Sands, the footage is readily available if you aren't looking the other way, and I think you would be astonished by what you see. If you bothered to look, you would see the videos and photos of Palestinians being lined up and marched out to the desert, but I think we all know why you would rather turn your back on Gaza. You, Tim Sands, have chosen to close your eyes and ignore reality.

If you look, you will see a specific sense of familiarity elicited by those photos from Gaza. They look eerily similar to the images we saw in history class and museum tours. Back then, the photos showed emaciated Jewish prisoners in a line waiting to be shot by Nazi soldiers before being pushed into their graves. It would help if you reconcile the fact that you and all other Virginia Tech administrators who are against divestment are complicit in crimes, war crimes, and crimes against humanity. You are complicit in a modern Holocaust, once again perpetrated against the descendants of the indigenous people of Canaan. The only change this time is that antisemitic pressures across Europe have created a movement of brutality, in which now it is descendants of the Jewish diaspora who implement carnage against their close relatives. The ones who long ago remained in Canaan are now the victims of not only hate but a second-hand form of hate. Criticisms of this movement of hate, one rooted in antisemitic origins, are often, ironically, dismissed as being antisemitic.

Tim Sands, if you were not ignoring the genocide being perpetrated by Israel, you would see the mass graves Palestinians are being buried alive in. You would see the lucky ones whose lives were mercifully ended before being pushed into their grave. You would see footage of hospital patients burning alive with IVs still attached to their arms. Families who are desperately searching for loved ones and their body parts, or their babies, who have been decapitated by flying shrapnel after Israel bombs yet another refugee encampment.

What would the Virginia Tech of the past and during WWII think if they knew we were actively contributing to a genocide, much like the Holocaust?

So again, we call for the immediate resignation of President Sands due to his inability to come to terms with this university’s continued support of an apartheid state that is currently carpet bombing people with nowhere to go by design. We call for the resignation of President Sands because complicity in genocide is not an answer, and Virginia Tech deserves better. The students deserve better, and Palestine deserves better.

Do better, President Sands.
